Alright.
So, let's start now, creating some custom checked exceptions.
First thing, we want to do is create a new class
in our ExceptionHandling project.
We'll call this one, CheckedExamples.
Alright, so this code has two classes, firstly, a custom exception,
CustomThrowable. You can see that that extends throwable,
so previously, stated that throwable is checked.
Any custom class that directly extends throwable is also considered checked.
So, this class is demonstrating a custom attribute
as well as a method on the custom exception,
and you can see the attribute there, and we've also got a custom method down there as well,
in line 34.
We've got a default constructor there,
which has an implied call to super,
the message will be null on that scenario obviously, because there's no parameter.
We've got a single arg constructor there, line 22,
which is passing a customized message.
We've got a two args constructor down here, line 28,
accepting message in throwable which wraps the original exception
into the custom exception.
Alright, so moving on down, then we've got our public class CheckedExamples.
Two methods in that, these are required to satisfy the Catch/Specifier requirement.
So, the throwThrowable method down here, line 63,
satisfies the Catch/Specifier requirement by specifying the Custom
Throwable Exception in the throws clause of the method declaration.
But also handleThrowable, if you come down here and check that method out.
That satisfies the Catch/Specifier requirement
by catching the Custom Throwable Exception thrown.
Alright, going back to our main method. You can see that invokes handleThrowable,
line 48 there, which does not throw the custom throwable CheckedException.
So, it's testing the no args constructor.
We've got a call to throwThrowable.
And that's in the try catch clause there, line 52,
is passing it the value zero as you can see there
and this throws a custom throwable CheckedException,
and tests the two arguments constructor.
And you can see the code there, specifically, line 70, testing to see whether the value
passed is zero, if it is, it's using two arguments when throwing custom throwable.
And lastly, then back to our main method again, line 57,
outside of the try/catch clause, it's passing it the value one.
This is throw throwable, and this throws a custom throwable CheckedException.
Looking at the code, you can see it's doing that on line 75.
That's testing a single args constructor with a custom message.
Now, this statement compiles because the main method
declares throwable in its throw clause.
You can see that on line 43.
Alright, so if we run this now.
And we can see the output on screen.
The first custom throwable was handled
by the method handleThrowable.
It was printed here, you can see it's got no message.
The second custom throwable was created with two arguments,
and first executed the doSomethingSpecial method.
And you can see the original exception is shown in the stack trace.
This was called and handled in the main method.
And the third custom throwable was created with one argument,
a custom message and was not handled,
resulting in the program terminating prematurely.
You can see that the custom message was used in the exception message.
Alright. So, if we close that run window down, the output pane rather.
I'll go back to our main method declaration, you can see it's on screen now.
Now, if we change what it is currently,
you can see it's set up to throws Throwable. If we remove this,
you know by doing that, it's caused the compiler-time error.
If I come over here, and click on that.
You can see the error there on line 57,
Unhandled Exception: CustomThrowable.
By removing throwable from the throws clause of the main method,
we've removed the specified part of the requirement
for CheckedExceptions.
So, let's undo that change.
So, in addition to throwable, when it's direct subclasses being CheckedExceptions
with the exception of error,
we know that the exception class is also a CheckedException.
So, let's add a CustomException that extends exception.
So, what I'm going to do is, add some code prior to the declaration
of the CustomThrowable class.
Here's our CustomThrowable class, I'm going to paste it up here.
So, this CustomException class extends exception as you can see.
It's got a constant Error_Code and tests yet another throwable constructor.
This one includes the two booleans enableSuppression.
I will be talking about suppressed exceptions in an upcoming video.
So, for now, I'll just make this always, false, and you can see that's hard coded
and writableStackTrace, which I'll test is both true and false
in invoking code.
Alright, now, I've done that. We need to add a method
to our CheckedExamples class. So, let's do that, I'll do that right down the bottom.
And here,
noting that the exception is declared in the throws clause,
specifically, what I'm doing is testing
a method that throws the exception to clearing the CustomException in the throws clause
as this method is doing.
And if an argument passed to this method is zero,
I throw the exception setting writableStackTrace to false.
You can see that on line 110, otherwise, it's set to true
on line 111 via the else.
Alright. So, now, that i've done that we need to alter our main method,
and I'm actually going to replace the main method with this new code,
so we'll go back up to there.
Replace it entirely, certainly be quicker.
So, what I've done there, is changed the two invocations of throws throwable
to now use testExceptionNotHandled, you can see that now
on line 63 as well as line 69.
I've also changed the catch to catch CustomException now
on line 64, whereas before it was catching custom throwable.
Well, so if we run this now,
you can see that this is similar to the last one.
But note that the second CustomException
thrown contains the additional stack trace for the wrapped exception.
And the first CustomException does not.
Alright, so going back to our main method again.
Let's change the throws throwable that's currently defined
for our main method throwing throwable,
we'll change that to throws CustomThrowable.
And notice by doing that, it no longer satisfies the Catch/Specifier requirement for the
testExceptionNotHandled method.
We've got a compiler error there,
Unhandled Exception: CustomException.
The throwable class is a catch-all for all exceptions, but sub-classes of it are not.
Alright, so go back up to our main method declaration again.
Let's change that from CustomThrowable to CustomException.
Notice that by doing that, our code now compiles again
because the main method declares the Unhandled Exception thrown
from the testExceptionNotHandled method.
That's by the throws CustomException.
Now, the result is the same whether you declare Throwable or Custom Exception.
And finally, there are two types of unchecked exceptions.
These are exceptions of subclass error
and exceptions that subclass RuntimeException directly or indirectly.
I want to show you a quick example of both,
so we need to create another class.
I'm going to call this UncheckedExamples.
Alright, so let's put the code in there.
So, in this code, I’ve pasted in, I create two custom exceptions
CustomError which you can see on line 10
that extends a subclass of error called UnknownError.
In this sample, I'm demonstrating just one constructor
as you can see, it's the one that's got one argument which is our message.
And the second class there is CustomArithmeticException
and that extends ArithmeticException derived from RuntimeException.
And again, just one constructor in the example,
and the UncheckedExamples class, you can see that's obviously got a main method there.
But it's also got two methods similar to the last class we used,
TestCustomError and TestCustomRuntimeException.
So, I catch the original exception, and you can see me doing that
on line 45 of testCustomError,
that method, and also lines 56 of our testCustomRuntimeException.
And I'm throwing a new exception either the CustomErrorException
on line 47, or our new CustomArithmeticException
on line 58 depending on the value that's passed to either method.
So, getting back to our main method,
it's got no requirements by the compiler to Catch/Specify either of the CustomExceptions.
So, therefore, I don't need the throws clause in the main method declaration.
You can see it obviously hasn't got that on line 24.
So, I'm wrapping the first methods invocation in a try/catch,
so that both methods are ultimately invoked.
Alright, we'll run this.
And remember here, just because the compiler is not forcing you to handle the error,
not handling an exception still results in the program terminating,
you can see that's obviously happened here.
Alright, so we'll stop at this point.
In this video and the previous one, I've reviewed checked and unchecked exceptions
and shown how you can create custom exceptions from any of
four given exception classes or their subclasses.
Firstly, throwable - the top-most exception class from which all others are subclassed.
Subclassing a custom class directly from this class is creating a checked exception.
Second, Error, which subclasses from Throwable
but is meant for special critical errors.
Java's exceptions of this type end with ‘Error’ in the name.
Subclassing your custom class from error will produce an unchecked exception,
you should use this if the error is one that is not recoverable from.
Third, Exception, which subclasses from Throwable
of which there is a special subclass runtime exception.
All classes that descend from exception and not from runtime exception
are checked exceptions.
Your custom class subclassed from Exception must satisfy
the Catch/Specifier requirement.
And lastly, Runtime Exception and all of its subclasses
well they're a special category of exception and are unchecked exceptions.
Subclassing your custom exception from any of these classes
will result in your custom exception being unchecked.
I've also reviewed leveraging existing constructors
in constructors of your custom exceptions.
If you pass the original exception to the constructor,
your chaining exceptions and the stack trace will print information
about the originating exception.
Alright, so moving on in the next video,
I'll start by discussing a special kind of error called the ‘Assertion Error’
- an error thrown from an assert statement
that will hold execution of your application and it is unchecked.
So, I'll see you in the next video!